We begin our program by revisiting the Philippines.
Two years ago, this month, Typhoon Hayan devastated that country,
and many of the 185,000 witnesses living there were in the direct path of the storm.
The effort our brothers made to search for and provide relief to fellow Christians was remarkable.
What did it take to bring that story to the worldwide brotherhood?
Typhoon Hayan struck the Philippines early morning on Friday, November the 8th.
Less than a week later, the governing body already decided they wanted a video to help document the relief efforts,
as well as brother Sanderson's visit to encourage the friends.
With the Philippines Typhoon Hayan's story, it was very important to turn it around quickly,
because it's a current news event, and all the people, the brothers and sisters there that were suffering,
we hoped it would be very encouraging for them to get this story quickly,
as well as witness for the country.
As soon as we received official permission from the writing committee,
we immediately sent out memos to the Philippines branch, as well as to the Korean branch.
We started to engage them in video conferences, but I was a little bit of a challenge,
because the Philippines is 13 hours difference in Korea's 14 hours difference.
When we first were asked to do this project, I think we felt somewhat underqualified in the Philippines,
but when we started thinking about how important it was to do this video,
and for the brothers all over the world to know what was happening to their brothers in the Philippines
and how they were being helped, well, that helped us get a feeling that this had real priority,
and we really needed to do what we could to help.
We decided to use a small crew from the Korean branch.
They had to plan, purchase, and get everything ready to go within two weeks' time.
It was much worse than we had thought before we arrived there.
I thought it was too severe to be true.
Many houses of witnesses and kingdom halls were totally destroyed.
It was not so easy getting into those disaster areas after the typhoon,
because it just tore the infrastructure apart in that area.
So, for example, the airport in Takloban City was pretty much half destroyed.
As we can imagine, when they went into this area, this was a disaster area,
so it can be very overwhelming.
So, while the team from Korea was shooting,
we would interact with them, given them ideas of what type of shots to get
and be able to focus their attention when in chaos.
It worked well. We were able to get done what was needed to be done
and in a reasonable amount of time.
If that's the one that's badly damaged because of the water.
We had brought two cameras.
However, when you arrived in the Philippines,
our second camera suddenly didn't work.
The main camera worked very well during whole shoot.
Afterwards, we realized that using two cameras
would only have slowed down our working pace.
Another big challenge that we had in connection with the video equipment
was that in most areas that we went to where there was so much destruction,
there was no electricity.
So, obviously, we had to keep on shooting,
but there was no place to plug in.
On one occasion, the brothers at the Kingdom all had a little generator,
so we were able to rev that up at night,
plug in our equipment and get it recharged.
So, the next day, then, we were able to go on with the shootings.
We worked for over 15 hours a day.
Our future brothers were always with us,
so we felt safe.
We really appreciate the brothers who assisted the project in many ways,
such as the brother who drove even at the very late night
and the brother who arranged the older scheduling,
having them, we could finish the project successfully.
We found it was getting easy to find encouraging stories,
as we were interviewing more and more local brothers.
Through those spiritual upbuilding conversations,
we came to obviously realize what makes Philippine brothers overcome their difficulties,
and we all agree the same things also made us encourage much as well.
That is definitely Jehovah's powerful and loving spirit.
We never became too tired to keep up our tight schedule,
despite tropical hot weather and sad situation out there.
We could feel that he imparted power beyond what is normal to us.
Once the team from Korea was done gathering the footage,
the next step was to get all of that footage back to us here.
There was 888 gigabytes worth of material, almost a terabyte,
which is about 20 hours worth of footage.
Sometimes it's a challenge when you have such a large amount of material
to not be overwhelmed or to know where to start.
So having a good plan, figuring out what your focus is,
that was the first step we needed to realize
what is the theme we want to focus on in these stories.
Not the tragedy of it, but the faith that was shown,
the resilience that the people had.
We would go through the footage and we would take screenshots
of some of these happy, laughing faces and print out those images
and then put them on backboards all around the room
so that we would keep our focus on the stories of the faith
and resilience that we wanted to emphasize.
The challenge with this particular video was that there was such an abundance
of faith strengthening and encouraging stories
that you didn't want to cut any of it out.
And yet, we don't have time to tell every single story.
When we looked at the things that we posted around the room,
the pictures, the images of the people, the plans,
the storyboarded sequences, it was so encouraging
because these brothers and sisters,
they had literally lost everything.
And all they had were the muddy clothes on their back
and they were living dozens in the same kingdom hall.
And yet, they were happiest to be with smiling faces
and focusing on spiritual things.
We had to decide which pieces we wanted to focus on
when everything was so powerful.
But when you watch the video,
at first you're not hearing a recognizable song or melody.
You're just hearing these chords.
They do happen to be the chords that come from song number 60 in our book.
He will make you strong.
The risk factor in using the song is that
because people would recognize the song that they would get sidetracked
from what they're seeing and hearing in the story.
But in this case, it really seemed like the content of the song,
the message of the song, would really fit very well.
And so in experimenting with the music,
we realized that even when you strip away the melody,
just use the chords, which is what you hear at the very beginning of the video.
And then at some point,
we actually depart from that compositionally.
We do not stick strictly to the song throughout the music score.
But we borrow from it intermittently.
And that's because early on,
we're talking about the disaster itself, the tragedy itself.
So there are other musical needs.
So we depart from the song composition
and we develop differently for a time.
But later, when we're telling the part about our brothers and sisters,
surviving, working together, helping one another,
that's when we bring the song itself, Singers and All, back into the story.
We have an excellent recording chorus in our Philippines branch.
We had them audition soloists for us
from which we selected the female soloist that was used.
In this case, it turned out to be a really good fit.
Taking this story to a higher level than just, say, humanitarian efforts,
it really gives the spiritual aspect of the help and the provision from Jehovah himself.
You may recall that in the video, there was a young girl, Cheryl and her brother.
The two of them lost their parents
and their other siblings during that terrible typhoon.
And we're happy to report that, first of all, very quickly after the typhoon,
a family in that area where the evacuees were,
they took the two into their family and cared for them
until such time as another family became available
that is closer to where the branch office is.
Cheryl joined the auxiliary pioneer service in May
and her brother is making progress in studying the Bible.
The brothers have really rallied to help these children
to go on with their lives and to continue serving Jehovah.
It was really important that this video be done
because the brothers around the world needed to know
what had happened to their brothers and sisters in the Philippines.
Typhoon Haiyan hit landfall in a country
in which we have over 185,000 of our brothers and sisters.
The impact was great on them.
Their story had really needed to be told.
We are a worldwide organization.
We're a worldwide brotherhood of family.
We love each other. We care for each other.
We need to know when there's a need like this
and what can be done to help.
Whenever Jehovah's people demonstrate this kind of love in helping one another,
they really is Christianity in action.
This was a powerful story to tell.
We know we're living in the last days
and tragedies like this happen.
Many of us wonder how would I react if that happened to me
and seeing the examples of faith of our brothers and sisters
in the Philippines is so faith-strengthening
because we see that even if you lose everything,
Jehovah always takes care of us.